Type 2 diabetes risk increases with overweight or obesity.
Family history of diabetes is a risk factor for developing diabetes.
Physical inactivity can contribute to the development of type 2 diabetes.
Smoking increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
High blood pressure is commonly associated with diabetes.
A history of gestational diabetes raises the risk of type 2 diabetes.
Age over 35 increases the risk of type 2 diabetes.
Certain ethnic backgrounds, such as African American or Hispanic, have higher diabetes risk.
Having prediabetes increases the likelihood of developing type 2 diabetes.
Polycystic ovary syndrome is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes.
Excess abdominal fat is linked to higher diabetes risk.
Insulin resistance is a key factor in the development of type 2 diabetes.
Pancreatic disease or injury can lead to diabetes.
Some genetic mutations can cause monogenic diabetes.
Cystic fibrosis can result in diabetes due to pancreatic damage.
Hemochromatosis can damage the pancreas and cause diabetes.
Certain endocrine diseases can lead to diabetes.
Taking some medications, such as steroids, can increase diabetes risk.
High levels of stress hormones can contribute to diabetes.
Frequent urination is a common symptom of diabetes.
Excessive thirst is a classic symptom of diabetes.
Unexplained weight loss can be a symptom of diabetes.
Increased hunger, even after eating, may indicate diabetes.
Fatigue is a frequent symptom in people with diabetes.
Blurred vision can result from high blood sugar levels.
Slow-healing sores are a symptom of diabetes.
Frequent infections, such as urinary tract infections, are seen in diabetes.
Tingling or numbness in hands or feet can be a symptom of diabetic neuropathy.
Darkened skin in certain areas, such as the neck, can be a sign of insulin resistance.
Irritability can be a symptom of blood sugar fluctuations in diabetes.
Dry mouth is sometimes experienced by people with diabetes.
Itchy skin can be a symptom of diabetes.
Yeast infections are more common in people with diabetes.
Erectile dysfunction can be associated with diabetes in men.
Poor wound healing is a complication of diabetes.
Nerve damage is a long-term complication of diabetes.
Kidney disease can result from poorly controlled diabetes.
Diabetes increases the risk of heart disease.
Vision loss can occur as a complication of diabetes.
High blood sugar can damage blood vessels over time.
Diabetes can cause increased appetite.
High blood sugar can cause headaches.
Diabetes can cause unexplained fatigue.
Diabetes can lead to increased urination at night.
Loss of consciousness can occur in severe cases of untreated diabetes.
Diabetes can cause fruity-smelling breath.
High blood sugar can cause nausea and vomiting.
Diabetes can cause unintentional weight loss.
Diabetes can cause frequent skin infections.
Diabetes can cause swelling in the feet and ankles.
Sunburn is not a symptom of diabetes.
Eating carrots does not cause diabetes.
Drinking water does not cause diabetes.
Catching a cold does not cause diabetes.
Sneezing is not a symptom of diabetes.
Playing sports does not cause diabetes.
Taking vitamin C does not cause diabetes.
Having blue eyes is not a risk factor for diabetes.
Listening to music does not cause diabetes.
Wearing glasses does not increase diabetes risk.
Reading books does not cause diabetes.
Swimming is not a cause of diabetes.
Having freckles is not a risk factor for diabetes.
Getting mosquito bites does not cause diabetes.
Watching TV does not directly cause diabetes.
Eating an apple does not cause diabetes.
Owning a pet does not increase diabetes risk.
Riding a bicycle does not cause diabetes.
Laughing is not a symptom of diabetes.
Having curly hair is not a risk factor for diabetes.
Drinking plain tea does not cause diabetes.
Chewing gum does not cause diabetes.
Wearing a hat does not increase diabetes risk.
Having a runny nose is not a symptom of diabetes.
Eating broccoli does not cause diabetes.
Reading in dim light does not cause diabetes.
Playing chess does not cause diabetes.
Having pierced ears is not a risk factor for diabetes.
Drinking herbal tea does not cause diabetes.
Getting a sun tan does not cause diabetes.
Eating spinach does not cause diabetes.
Having dimples is not a risk factor for diabetes.
Using a computer does not cause diabetes.
Wearing red clothes does not increase diabetes risk.
Having a sore throat is not a symptom of diabetes.
Eating yogurt does not cause diabetes.
Drinking milk does not cause diabetes.
Having a cough is not a symptom of diabetes.
Eating tomatoes does not cause diabetes.
Brushing your teeth does not cause diabetes.
Having straight hair is not a risk factor for diabetes.
Drinking coffee in moderation does not cause diabetes.
Having a fever is not a symptom of diabetes.
Eating oranges does not cause diabetes.
Wearing jewelry does not increase diabetes risk.
Having a headache alone is not a specific symptom of diabetes.
Eating lettuce does not cause diabetes.
Having a stuffy nose is not a symptom of diabetes.
Drinking unsweetened tea does not cause diabetes.
Eating cucumbers does not cause diabetes.
